---
layout: wechat
title: 文档基础结构设计
tags=test
---

# 对象object

everything is object, which is created in root/obj folder
一切皆为对象，存储在应用程序的obj目录中。

name = md5(length + content)
基于内容寻址的对象名

content = header + body
header = size + file.metadata
body = zip(file.content)
内容分为头和体，头的前4位为头部大小，头内容为kv文本。体内容为文件内容。

## header

header is a key-value dictionary, which is used to store the meta data of the file.

# doc

## doc obj
### header

type: doc

create: create time of the doc

author: the author of the doc

title: the title of the doc

key: the path of the doc

### body

zip file content

# toc

by default, there is no hierarchy of the doc ,we use toc to organize the doc. 

there are some *.toc object in work space, in which have a some toc objects and/or doc objects.

## create toc
create *.toc object in work space

## toc obj

### header

type:toc

name:

### body

toc object key/id list

doc object key/id list

## ver obj

### header

type: ver

parent: ver obj id1

parent: ver obj id2

author: the author of the book

description: the description of the book

create:time

### body

the toc object id

# api

## toc

load toc file 

read version object

load toc object

### list

```shell
toc [name of toc]
```

list all items in toc

item

​     sub items

### place toc item

```shell
toc place object_id [related_object_id] [before_after]
```

add new item in toc

### remove toc item

```shell
toc remove object_id
```

### move toc item

```shell
toc move object_id related_object_id [before_after]
```



### replace toc item

```
toc replace old_object_id new_object_id
```

## doc

by default ,the system create a special {workspace}.index in root folder to track the doc changes.

### save work space items to stage

```shell
doc save path
```

the system will append a doc item in the  {workspace}.toc. the doc key is used to identify the same item. once the file is too big, the gc will be trigged to reduce the file by doc key.

### reset all doc items

```shell
doc reset
```

the system will reset all doc items  in the  {workspace}.toc. so that we can reuse them.

### update doc item

the *.toc files in the workspace will track the doc changes. once the doc item changed, the system will replace toc item.



## version

by default, the version function does not work automatically, you can user commit to do version.

```
doc ver message
```

